Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost in its
unshored, harborless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy
hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the Leviathan; at the outset it
is but well to attend to a matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative
understanding of the more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts
which are to follow.
It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera, that I
would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. e classification of the
constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed. Listen to what the best and
latest authorities have laid down.
"No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology,"
says Captain Scoresby, A. D. .
"It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiry as to the
true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families. * * * Utter confusion
exists among the historians of this animal" (Sperm Whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.
D. .
"Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters." "Impenetrable
veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea." "A field strewn with thorns." "All these
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists."
us speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those
lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be
little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology,
or the science of whales. many are the men, small and great, old and new, lands-
men and seamen, who have at large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a
few:-e Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir omas Browne;
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Bris-
son; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Cuvier;

John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the Author of
Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what ultimate gener-
alizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extras will show.
Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen ever
saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional harpooneer and
whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate subje of the Greenland
or Right-Whale, he is the best existing authority. But Scoresby knew nothing
and says nothing of the great Sperm Whale, compared with which the Greenland
Whale is almost unworthy mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland
Whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means
the largest of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the
profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the then fabulous
and utterly unknown Sperm-Whale, and which ignorance to this present day still
reigns in all but some few scientific retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has
been every way complete. Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the
great poets of past days, will satisfy you that the Greenland Whale, without one
rival, was to them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
proclamation. is is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,-the Greenland
Whale is deposed,-the great Sperm Whale now reigneth!
ere are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living Sperm
Whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the at-
tempt. ose books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons to Eng-
lish South-Sea whale-ships, and both exa and reliable men. e original matter
touching the Sperm Whale to be found in their volumes is necessarily small; but so
far as it goes, it is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific descrip-
tion. As yet, however, the Sperm Whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in
any literature. Far above all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.
Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular comprehensive
classification, if only an easy outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in
all its departments by subsequent laborers. As no better man advances to take
this matter in hand, I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing
complete; because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description
of the various species, or-in this place at least-to much of any description. My
obje here is simply to proje the draught of a systematization of cetology. I am
the archite, not the builder.
But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post- office is equal
to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands
among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a
fearful thing. What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this Leviathan!
e awful tauntings in Job might well appal me. "Will he (the Leviathan) make

a covenant with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain!" But I have swam through
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible
hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. ere are some preliminaries to settle.
First: e uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology is in the
very vestibule attested by the fa, that in some quarters it still remains a moot
point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of Nature, A. D. , Linnaeus
declares, "I hereby separate the whales from the fish." But of my own knowledge,
I know that down to the year , sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against
Linnaeus's express edi, were still found dividing the possession of the same seas
with the Leviathan.
e grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from
the waters, he states as follows: "On account of their warm bilocular heart, their
lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem intrantem feminam mam-
mis laantem," and finally, "ex lege naturae jure meritoque." I submitted all this
to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates
of mine in a certain voyage, and they united in the opinion that the reasons set
forth were altogether insufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned ground
that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me. is fundamental
thing settled, the next point is, in what internal respe does the whale differ from
other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given you those items. But in brief, they are these:
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as conspicu-
ously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a whale is a spouting
fish with a horizontal tail. ere you have him. However contraed, that defin-
ition is the result of expanded meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale,
but the walrus is not a fish, because he is amphibious. but the last term of the
definition is still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must
have noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical,
or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be
similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal position.
By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude from the
leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified with the whale by the
best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto
authoritatively regarded as alien. Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal
tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come
the grand divisions of the entire whale host.
First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary B
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small and
large.
I, e F ; II. the O ; III. the D .

As the type of the F I present the Sperm Whale; of the O, the
Grampus; of the D, the Porpoise.
F. Among these I here include the following chapters:-I. e Sperm
Whale; II. the Right Whale; III. the Fin Back Whale; IV. the Hump-backed
Whale; V. the Razor Back Whale; VI. the Sulphur Bottom Whale.
B I. (F), C I. (S W). -is whale, among the Eng-
lish of old vaguely known as the Trumpa Whale, and the Physeter Whale, and the
Anvil Headed Whale, is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of
the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words. He is, without doubt,
the largest inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter;
the most majestic in aspe; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he
being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is ob-
tained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon. It is
chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically considered, it is ab-
surd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm Whale was almost wholly unknown
in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only accidentally obtained
from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly sup-
posed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England
as the Greenland or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti
was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the
word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce,
not being used for light, but only as an ointment and medicament. It was only
to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb. When,
as I opine, in the course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its
original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a
notion so strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at last
have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really
derived.
B I. (F), C II. (R W). -In one respe this is the
most venerable of the Leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man. It
yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially
known as "whale oil", an inferior article in commerce. Among the fishermen, he is
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: e Whale; the Greenland
Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale.
there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudin-
ously baptized. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species of
my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the Greenland
Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the French whalemen;
the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale which for more than two
centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and English in the Aric seas; it is
the whale which the American fishermen have long pursued in the Indian ocean,

on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West Coast, and various other parts of the world,
designated by them Right Whale Cruising Grounds.
Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland Whale of the English
and the Right Whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree in all their grand
features; nor has there yet been presented a single determinate fa upon which
to ground a radical distinion. It is by endless subdivisions based upon the most
inconclusive differences, that some departments of natural history become so re-
pellingly intricate. e Right Whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length,
with reference to elucidating the Sperm Whale.
B I (F), C III (F-B). -Under this head I reckon a
monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall- Spout, and Long-John,
has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale whose distant jet
is so often descried by passengers crossing the Atlantic, in the New York packet-
tracks. In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the Right
Whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter color, approaching to olive. His
great lips present a cable-like aspe, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of
large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives
his name, is often a conspicuous obje. this fin is some three or four feet long,
growing vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with
a very sharp pointed end. Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be
visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projeing from the surface.
When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples, and
this gnomon- like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled surface, it
may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it somewhat resembles a
dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines graved on it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow
often goes back. e Fin-Back is not gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some
men are man-haters. Very shy; always going solitary; unexpeedly rising to the
surface in the remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet
rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such won-
drous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from man;
this Leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing
for his mark that style upon his back. From having the baleen in his mouth, the
Fin-Back is sometimes included with the Right Whale, among a theoretic spe-
cies denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen. Of these so
called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several varieties, most of which,
however, are little known. Broad-nosed whales and beaked whales; pike-headed
whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fisher-
men's names for a few sorts.
In connexion with this appellative of "Whalebone whales", it is of great im-
portance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in
facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear

classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or fin,
or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very obviously seem
better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other
detached bodily distinions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How then?
e baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose peculiarities are
indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales, without any regard to what
may be the nature of their struure in other and more essential particulars. us,
the Sperm Whale and the Humpbacked Whale, each has a hump; but there the
similitude ceases. en, this same Humpbacked Whale and the Greenland Whale,
each of these has baleen; but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the
same with the other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, they form
such irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an
irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such
a basis. On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.
But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in
his anatomy-there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification. Nay;
what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland Whale's anatomy more striking
than his baleen? Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is impossible correly to
classify the Greenland Whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
Leviathans, why there you will not find distinions a fiftieth part as available to
the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated. What then remains?
nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and
boldly sort them that way. And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted;
and it is the only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is praicable. To
proceed.
B I (F), C IV (H B). -this whale is often seen on
the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and towed
into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call him the
Elephant and Castle Whale. At any rate, the popular name for him does not suffi-
ciently distinguish him, since the Sperm Whale also has a hump, though a smaller
one. His oil is not very valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and
light-hearted of all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally
than any other of them.
B I (F), C V (R B). -Of this whale little is known
but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a retiring nature,
he eludes both hunters and philosophers. ough no coward, he has never yet
shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long sharp ridge. Let him go.
I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
B I (F), C VI (S B). - Another retiring gen-
tleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the Tartarian tiles
in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen; at least I have never seen

him except in the remoter southern seas, and then always at too great a distance to
study his countenance. He is never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of
line. Prodigies are told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more
that is true of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.
us ends B I (F), and now begins
B II (Oavo). O. ese embrace the whales of middling mag-
nitude, among which at present may be numbered:-I, the Grampus; II, the Black
Fish; III, the Narwhale; IV, the rasher; V, the Killer.
B II (O), C I (G). -ough this fish, whose loud
sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so
well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.
But possessing all the grand distinive features of the Leviathan, most naturalists
have recognised him for one. He is of moderate oavo size, varying from fifteen
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist.
He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in
quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is regarded
as premonitory of the advance of the great Sperm Whale.
B II (O), C II (B F). -I give the popular fisher-
men's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best. Where any name
happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another. I do so
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among al-
most all whales. So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is
well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved
upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. is whale
averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost all latit-
udes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin in swimming, which
looks something like a Roman nose. When not more profitably employed, the
Sperm Whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena Whale, to keep up the sup-
ply of cheap oil for domestic employment-as some frugal housekeepers, in the
absence of company, and quite alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead
of odorous wax. ough their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield
you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
B II (O), C III (N),  , N W.
-Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. e creature is some
sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some exceed ten,
and even attain to fifteen feet. Strily speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk,
growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is
only found on the sinister side, which has an ill effe, giving its owner something
analogous to the aspe of a clumsy left-handed man. What precise purpose this
ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to say. It does not seemed to be

used like the blade of the sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that
the Narwhale employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.
Charley Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so
breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be corre. My
own opinion is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Nar-
whale-however that may be-it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
folder in reading pamphlets. e Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked Whale,
the Horned Whale, and the Unicorn Whale. He is certainly a curious example of
the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From
certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn's horn
was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison, and as such,
preparations of it brought immense prices. It was also distilled to a volatile salts
for fainting ladies, the same way that the horns of the male deer are manufaured
into hartshorn. Originally it was in itself accounted an obje of great curiosity.
Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage,
when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of
Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the ames; when Sir Martin re-
turned from that voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her
highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after
hung in the castle at Windsor. An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on
bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a
land beast of the unicorn nature.
e Narwhale has a very piuresque, leopard-like look, being of a milk-white
ground color, dotted with round and oblong spots of black. His oil is very superior,
clear and fine; but there is little of it, and he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found
in the circumpolar seas.
B II (O), C IV (K). -Of this whale little is precisely
known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed naturalist. From
what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say that he was about the bigness
of a grampus. He is very savage-a sort of Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the
great Folio Whales by the lip, and hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is
worried to death. e Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has.
Exception might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground
of its indistinness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
Sharks included.
B II (O), C V (T). -is gentleman is famous
for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts the Folio
Whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by flogging him; as some
schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar process. Still less is known of the
rasher than of the Killer. Both are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.

us ends B II (O), and begins B III (D).
D. ese include the smaller whales.-I, e Huzza Porpoise;
II, e Algerine Porpoise; III, e Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.
To those who have not chanced specially to study the subje, it may possibly
seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five feet should be mar-
shalled among W-a word, which, in the popular sense, always conveys an
idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly
whales, by the terms of my definition of what a whale is-i.e. a spouting fish, with
a horizontal tail.
B III (D), C I (H P). -is is the com-
mon porpoise found almost all over the globe. e name is of my own bestowal;
for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to dis-
tinguish them. I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of- July
crowd. eir appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of
fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. ey are
the lads that always live before the wind. ey are accounted a lucky omen. If you
yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven
help ye; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza
Porpoise will yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid
extraed from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among jewellers
and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise meat is good eating,
you know. It may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts. Indeed,
his spout is so small that it is not very readily discernible. But the next time you
have a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm Whale himself
in miniature.
B III (D), C II (A P). -A pirate. Very
savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger than the
Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him, and he will
buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but never yet saw him
captured.
B III (D), C III (M- P). -e
largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is known.
e only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated, is that of the
fishers-Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in
the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza
Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and
gentleman-like figure. He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he
has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue. But his mealy-mouth
spoils all. ough his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable, yet a
boundary line, distin as the mark in a ship's hull, called the "bright waist", that

line streaks him from stem to stern, with two separate colors, black above and
white below. e white comprises part of his head, and the whole of his mouth,
which makes him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-
bag. A most mean and mealy aspe! His oil is much like that of the common
porpoise.
Beyond the Duodecimo, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Por-
poise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.
But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an
American whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate
them by their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If any of
the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Oavo, or Duodecimo mag-
nitude:-e Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed Whale;
the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale; the
Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the
Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities, there might
be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth
names. But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspeing
them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing. Finally: It
was stated at the outset, that this system would not be here, and at once, per-
feed. You cannot but plainly see that I have kept my word. But I now leave
my cetological System standing thus unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of
Cologne was left, with the crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted
tower. For small ereions may be finished by their first archites; grand ones, true
ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever completing
anything. is whole book is but a draught -nay, but the draught of a draught.
Oh Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience! I am aware that down to the present
time, the fish styled Lamatins and Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins
of Nantucket) are included by many naturalists among the whales. But as these
pig-fish are a nosy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and
feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials
as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
Cetology. Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet the book-
binder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the shape of the
Folio volume, but the Oavo volume does.